---
title: Exploring Mobile Phone Pricing Dynamics - A Data-Driven Analysis
date: 2023-11-022 02:28:00 -0500
categories: [Data Science, Machine Learning, Predictive Analytics, Consumer Electronics, Pricing Strategies, Technology Trends, Business Insights]
tags: [Data Science, Machine Learning, Predictive Modeling, Data Exploration, Data Cleaning, Feature Scaling, Support Vector Classifier, Random Forest Classifier, Adaboost Classifier, Mobile Technology, Pricing Dynamics, Consumer Behavior, Technology Sector, Kaggle Dataset]
---

## Project Description: 

In a world driven by rapid technological advancements and evolving consumer behaviors, understanding the dynamics of pricing in the technology sector is paramount. My portfolio showcases a deep dive into the effects of inflation on the cost of essential tech items like smartphones and laptops amidst broader economic concerns. Through data exploration, cleaning, and validation, I analyzed a Kaggle-provided dataset comprising 2000 entries and 20 features, focusing on predicting mobile phone pricing.

Using machine learning techniques, I meticulously preprocessed the data, employed feature scaling for standardization, and implemented a randomized train-test split to ensure model integrity. Four classification models—K-Nearest Neighbor, Support Vector Classifier (SVC), Random Forest Classifier, and Adaboost Classifier—were evaluated for their efficacy in predicting price ranges.

The Support Vector Classifier emerged as the top performer, boasting an impressive accuracy score of 0.96. Its proficiency in accurately classifying price ranges underscores its effectiveness as a predictive tool. Conversely, the K-Nearest Neighbor model exhibited the lowest efficacy with an accuracy score of 0.5.

Through this portfolio, I offer valuable insights into the influence of technology pricing on consumer behavior and the strategic implications for businesses. By leveraging data-driven approaches, I aim to enhance understanding of the intricate dynamics shaping pricing landscapes in the mobile industry.

If you would like to check out the repository please:    [click here](https://github.com/Jenish201/Mobile_Price_Classification.git)